readme.md, before:

# iTomate

<img width="450px" align="right" src="./.github/assets/illustration.png" />

> Automate your iTerm layouts and session setup

Define your iTerm layouts, commands to execute in the form of yaml files and run a single command to have iTerm prepare itself for you to start working.

## Requirements

* iTerm2 Version 3.3 or later
* Python 3.5 or later

## Installation

Make sure that you are running Python 3.5 or later

```shell
pip install itomate
```

[Enable Python API usage](./.github/assets/preferences.png) in iTerm preferences.

```shell
itomate --version
```

## Example
> The layout, number of panes, tabs, titles and commands is configurable and is detailed below.

![](./.github/assets/itomate-demo.gif)

## Usage
Open iTerm and simply run the below command

```shell
itomate -c config.yml
```
If you don't provide `-c` flag, itomate will look for `itomate.yml` file in the current directory and use that.

Here is the list of options available

```shell
itomate [-c,--config <config-file>] # Sets up the iTerm session
        [-h,--help]                 # Shows the help screen
        [-v,--version]              # Shows the installed itomate version
        [-n,--new]                  # Runs itomate in a new window
```

## Configuration
Configuration file to set up the sessions has the format below

```yml
version: "1.0"
profile: "My Profile"
tabs:
  window-1:
    root: "~/Documents/Projects/my_project"
    title: "Window 1"
    panes:
      - title: "Some Pane Title"
        position: "1/1"
        commands:
         - !ENV "db authenticate ${DB_PASSWORD}"
         - "second command"
      - position: "1/2"
        focus: true
        badge: "Jobs"
      - position: "2/1"
      - position: "2/2"
  window-2:
    title: "Window 2"
    panes:
      - position: "1/1"
      - position: "1/2"
      - position: "2/1"
```

Details for each of the configuration objects above is given below

| Key        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
|------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `version`  | Refers to the itomate configuration version. Should always be 1.                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `profile`  | Name of the profile you would like to use for all panes. If using `-n` argument to launch a new window, then window specific profile settings will be applied                                                                                    |
| `tabs`     | Windows or tabs in the iTerm window.                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `window-1` | Replace with the unique project id e.g. `web-catalog-pim`                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `root`     | Root path for all panes within a tab                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `title`    | Title to be shown in the title bar of the current tab                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `badge`    | Set the Badge Text of the pane
| `position` | Position of the pane in the window. It has the format of `number1/number2` where `number1` refers to the column and `number2` refers to the row in the column. More on this later in the readme. `position` is the only required key in a pane   |
| `focus`    | Pane to be in focus when itomate is finished. `focus: true`. There should only be one focus flag per Tab. If multiple are found, it will focus on the last pane evaluated.                                                                                                                                   |
| `commands` | List of commands to execute in the current pane.                                                                                                                                                                                                 |

## Environment Variables
Operating System Environment Variables can be used to create templates with secrets and variables. This allows itomate files to be safely committed to version control. Note in the above configuration example the line using the environment variable is prefixed with the  `!ENV` tag and then uses one or more Environment Variables
wrapped in the `${ }` syntax.

## Layouts
The parameter `position` in each pane decides where each of the window panes will be displayed. The position value has the format below

```shell
x / y – both x and y are required parameters

x: refers to the column in the window
y: refers to the row of the given column x
```

Here are some of the examples for different pane layouts

## Single Pane Window

For single pane, since there is one column and one row, the position for pane would be `1/1`
```
.------------------.
| 1/1              |
|                  |
|                  |
|                  |
|                  |
|                  |
|                  |
|                  |
|                  |
'------------------'
```
Here is how the configuration would look like
```yml
version: "1.0"
tabs:
  some-project:
    title: "Some Project"
    panes:
      - title: "Single Pane"
        position: "1/1"
        commands:
          - "cd ~/Workspace/some-project"
          - "git pull origin master"
          - "yarn dev"
```

## Two Panes Vertical Split Layout
For two panes with equal split or in other words two columns with one row in each, the positions would be `1/1` for the pane on the left and `2/1` for the pane on the right i.e. the second column.
```
.------------------.------------------.
| 1/1              | 2/1              |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
'------------------'------------------'
```
Here is how it would look in the configuration
```yml
version: "1.0"
tabs:
  some-project:
    root: "~/Workspace/some-project"
    title: "Some Project"
    panes:
      - title: "First Half"
        position: "1/1"    # <-- Notice the position
      - title: "Second Half"
        position: "2/1"    # <-- Notice the position
```
## Two Columns, Three Panes Layout

The layout below now has two columns. First column has only one row so position for that would be `1/1`. For the second column we have two panes i.e. two rows; first pane in the second column would be `2/1` and the second one would be `2/2`.

```
.------------------.------------------.
| 1/1              | 2/1              |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
|                  |------------------|
|                  | 2/2              |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
'------------------'------------------'
```

Configuration for that would be:

```yml
version: "1.0"
tabs:
  some-project:
    root: "~/Workspace/dev-server"
    title: "Some Project"
    panes:
      - position: "1/1"    # <-- Notice the position
      - position: "2/1"    # <-- Notice the position
        commands:
          - "./run"
      - position: "2/2"    # <-- Notice the position
        commands:
          - "git standup"
```
Note that the `commands` and `title` are optional parameters in panes. Only `position` is required.

## Two Columns, Four Panes Layout

```
.------------------.------------------.
| 1/1              | 2/1              |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
|------------------|                  |
| 1/2              |                  |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
|------------------|                  |
| 1/3              |                  |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
'------------------'------------------'
```
Configuration for that would be:
```yml
version: "1.0"
tabs:
  some-project:
    root: "~/Workspace/project"
    title: "Some Project"
    panes:
      - position: "1/1"    # <-- Notice the position
        commands:
          - "Make clean"
      - position: "1/2"    # <-- Notice the position
        commands:
          - "git standup"
      - position: "1/3"    # <-- Notice the position
        commands:
          - "git standup"
      - position: "2/1"    # <-- Notice the position
        commands:
          - "./run"
```

## Three Columns Five Pane Layout

```
.------------------.------------------.------------------.
| 1/1              | 2/1              | 3/1              |
|                  |                  |                  |
|                  |                  |                  |
|                  |                  |                  |
|                  |------------------|                  |
|                  | 2/2              |                  |
|                  |                  |                  |
|                  |                  |                  |
|                  |------------------|                  |
|                  | 2/3              |                  |
|                  |                  |                  |
|                  |                  |                  |
'------------------'------------------'------------------'
```
Configuration for that would be

```yml
version: "1.0"
tabs:
  some-project:
    title: "Some Project"
    panes:
      - position: "1/1"    # <-- Notice the position
      - position: "2/1"    # <-- Notice the position
      - position: "2/2"    # <-- Notice the position
      - position: "2/3"    # <-- Notice the position
      - position: "3/1"    # <-- Notice the position
```

## Contributors
Special thanks to the contributors for making iTomate possible

* [@zakiuu](https://github.com/zakiuu)
* [@JohnLegrandRichards](https://github.com/JohnLegrandRichards)
* [@zachvalenta](https://github.com/zachvalenta)
* You?


## Similar Projects

There is [itermocil](https://github.com/TomAnthony/itermocil/blob/master/README.md) which relies on [Applescript that has been deprecated by iTerm](https://www.iterm2.com/documentation-scripting.html), has limited layout options, and is pretty limited in terms of what it can achieve because of AppleScript. iTomate on the other hand uses iTerm's [newly introduced Python API](https://www.iterm2.com/python-api/), has flexible layouts support and can be extended using iTerm's pretty powerful API.

## Contributions
Feel free to submit pull requests, create issues, spread the word.

## License 

MIT &copy; [Kamran Ahmed](https://twitter.com/kamranahmedse)

Commit message:

Bump version to 0.3.7, add `prompt` documentation

readme.md, after:

# iTomate

<img width="450px" align="right" src="./.github/assets/illustration.png" />

> Automate your iTerm layouts and session setup

Define your iTerm layouts, commands to execute in the form of yaml files and run a single command to have iTerm prepare itself for you to start working.

## Requirements

* iTerm2 Version 3.3 or later
* Python 3.5 or later

## Installation

Make sure that you are running Python 3.5 or later

```shell
pip install itomate
```

[Enable Python API usage](./.github/assets/preferences.png) in iTerm preferences.

```shell
itomate --version
```

## Example
> The layout, number of panes, tabs, titles and commands is configurable and is detailed below.

![](./.github/assets/itomate-demo.gif)

## Usage
Open iTerm and simply run the below command

```shell
itomate -c config.yml
```
If you don't provide `-c` flag, itomate will look for `itomate.yml` file in the current directory and use that.

Here is the list of options available

```shell
itomate [-c,--config <config-file>] # Sets up the iTerm session
        [-h,--help]                 # Shows the help screen
        [-v,--version]              # Shows the installed itomate version
        [-n,--new]                  # Runs itomate in a new window
```

## Configuration
Configuration file to set up the sessions has the format below

```yml
version: "1.0"
profile: "My Profile"
tabs:
  window-1:
    root: "~/Documents/Projects/my_project"
    title: "Window 1"
    panes:
      - title: "Some Pane Title"
        position: "1/1"
        commands:
         - !ENV "db authenticate ${DB_PASSWORD}"
         - "second command"
        prompt: "populated command"
      - position: "1/2"
        focus: true
        badge: "Jobs"
      - position: "2/1"
      - position: "2/2"
  window-2:
    title: "Window 2"
    panes:
      - position: "1/1"
      - position: "1/2"
      - position: "2/1"
```

Details for each of the configuration objects above is given below

| Key        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
|------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `version`  | Refers to the itomate configuration version. Should always be 1.                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `profile`  | Name of the profile you would like to use for all panes. If using `-n` argument to launch a new window, then window specific profile settings will be applied                                                                                    |
| `tabs`     | Windows or tabs in the iTerm window.                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `window-1` | Replace with the unique project id e.g. `web-catalog-pim`                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `root`     | Root path for all panes within a tab                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `title`    | Title to be shown in the title bar of the current tab                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `badge`    | Set the Badge Text of the pane                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `position` | Position of the pane in the window. It has the format of `number1/number2` where `number1` refers to the column and `number2` refers to the row in the column. More on this later in the readme. `position` is the only required key in a pane   |
| `focus`    | Pane to be in focus when itomate is finished. `focus: true`. There should only be one focus flag per Tab. If multiple are found, it will focus on the last pane evaluated.                                                                       |
| `commands` | List of commands to execute in the current pane.                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `prompt`   | A command which will remain populated in the prompt after all `command`s have finished executing. The `prompt` command itself is not executed automatically.                                                                                     |

## Environment Variables
Operating System Environment Variables can be used to create templates with secrets and variables. This allows itomate files to be safely committed to version control. Note in the above configuration example the line using the environment variable is prefixed with the  `!ENV` tag and then uses one or more Environment Variables
wrapped in the `${ }` syntax.

## Layouts
The parameter `position` in each pane decides where each of the window panes will be displayed. The position value has the format below

```shell
x / y – both x and y are required parameters

x: refers to the column in the window
y: refers to the row of the given column x
```

Here are some of the examples for different pane layouts

## Single Pane Window

For single pane, since there is one column and one row, the position for pane would be `1/1`
```
.------------------.
| 1/1              |
|                  |
|                  |
|                  |
|                  |
|                  |
|                  |
|                  |
|                  |
'------------------'
```
Here is how the configuration would look like
```yml
version: "1.0"
tabs:
  some-project:
    title: "Some Project"
    panes:
      - title: "Single Pane"
        position: "1/1"
        commands:
          - "cd ~/Workspace/some-project"
          - "git pull origin master"
          - "yarn dev"
```

## Two Panes Vertical Split Layout
For two panes with equal split or in other words two columns with one row in each, the positions would be `1/1` for the pane on the left and `2/1` for the pane on the right i.e. the second column.
```
.------------------.------------------.
| 1/1              | 2/1              |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
'------------------'------------------'
```
Here is how it would look in the configuration
```yml
version: "1.0"
tabs:
  some-project:
    root: "~/Workspace/some-project"
    title: "Some Project"
    panes:
      - title: "First Half"
        position: "1/1"    # <-- Notice the position
      - title: "Second Half"
        position: "2/1"    # <-- Notice the position
```
## Two Columns, Three Panes Layout

The layout below now has two columns. First column has only one row so position for that would be `1/1`. For the second column we have two panes i.e. two rows; first pane in the second column would be `2/1` and the second one would be `2/2`.

```
.------------------.------------------.
| 1/1              | 2/1              |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
|                  |------------------|
|                  | 2/2              |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
'------------------'------------------'
```

Configuration for that would be:

```yml
version: "1.0"
tabs:
  some-project:
    root: "~/Workspace/dev-server"
    title: "Some Project"
    panes:
      - position: "1/1"    # <-- Notice the position
      - position: "2/1"    # <-- Notice the position
        commands:
          - "./run"
      - position: "2/2"    # <-- Notice the position
        commands:
          - "git standup"
```
Note that the `commands` and `title` are optional parameters in panes. Only `position` is required.

## Two Columns, Four Panes Layout

```
.------------------.------------------.
| 1/1              | 2/1              |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
|------------------|                  |
| 1/2              |                  |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
|------------------|                  |
| 1/3              |                  |
|                  |                  |
|                  |                  |
'------------------'------------------'
```
Configuration for that would be:
```yml
version: "1.0"
tabs:
  some-project:
    root: "~/Workspace/project"
    title: "Some Project"
    panes:
      - position: "1/1"    # <-- Notice the position
        commands:
          - "Make clean"
      - position: "1/2"    # <-- Notice the position
        commands:
          - "git standup"
      - position: "1/3"    # <-- Notice the position
        commands:
          - "git standup"
      - position: "2/1"    # <-- Notice the position
        commands:
          - "./run"
```

## Three Columns Five Pane Layout

```
.------------------.------------------.------------------.
| 1/1              | 2/1              | 3/1              |
|                  |                  |                  |
|                  |                  |                  |
|                  |                  |                  |
|                  |------------------|                  |
|                  | 2/2              |                  |
|                  |                  |                  |
|                  |                  |                  |
|                  |------------------|                  |
|                  | 2/3              |                  |
|                  |                  |                  |
|                  |                  |                  |
'------------------'------------------'------------------'
```
Configuration for that would be

```yml
version: "1.0"
tabs:
  some-project:
    title: "Some Project"
    panes:
      - position: "1/1"    # <-- Notice the position
      - position: "2/1"    # <-- Notice the position
      - position: "2/2"    # <-- Notice the position
      - position: "2/3"    # <-- Notice the position
      - position: "3/1"    # <-- Notice the position
```

## Contributors
Special thanks to the contributors for making iTomate possible

* [@zakiuu](https://github.com/zakiuu)
* [@JohnLegrandRichards](https://github.com/JohnLegrandRichards)
* [@zachvalenta](https://github.com/zachvalenta)
* [@PSalant726](https://github.com/psalant726)
* You?


## Similar Projects

There is [itermocil](https://github.com/TomAnthony/itermocil/blob/master/README.md) which relies on [Applescript that has been deprecated by iTerm](https://www.iterm2.com/documentation-scripting.html), has limited layout options, and is pretty limited in terms of what it can achieve because of AppleScript. iTomate on the other hand uses iTerm's [newly introduced Python API](https://www.iterm2.com/python-api/), has flexible layouts support and can be extended using iTerm's pretty powerful API.

## Contributions
Feel free to submit pull requests, create issues, spread the word.

## License

MIT &copy; [Kamran Ahmed](https://twitter.com/kamranahmedse)
